# -*- pod -*-
=head1 NAME

youtube-dl - download videos from youtube.com

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  youtube-dl [options] url ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

youtube-dl is a script to download videos from youtube.com.

Once it is installed in your system, you should be able to call it from
the command line. Usage instructions are easy. Use youtube-dl followed
by a video URL or identifier. As an example, consider:

  youtube-dl "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=foobar"

The video will be saved to the file C<foobar.flv> in that example. Many
YouTube.com videos are in Flash Video format and their extension would
be C<flv>. Other videos are encoded in H.264 and these usually have the
extension C<mp4>.  In Linux and other unices, video players using a
recent version of ffmpeg can play them. That includes MPlayer, VLC,
xine, among others.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<youtube-dl> accepts options in the following categories

=over

=item -h, --help

Print help text and exit.

=item -v, --version

Print program version and exit.

=item -U, --update

Update this program to the latest stable version.

=item -i, --ignore-errors

Ignore errors during download and continue processing.

=item -r B<L>, --rate-limit=B<L>

Limit the download speed to the specified maximum B<L> (e.g., 50k or 44.6m).

=item -R B<R>, --retries=B<R>

Number B<R> of retries for a given download (default is 10).

=item -u B<UN>, --username=B<UN>

Specify the youtube account username B<UN>. Some videos require an
account to be downloaded, mostly because they're flagged as mature
content.

=item -p B<PW>, --password=B<PW>

Like the username, specifies the account password to be B<PW>.

=item -n, --netrc 

Get authentication data from the standard unix .netrc file on the user's
home directory. The machine name is youtube regarding this usage.

=item -f B<FMT>, --format=B<FMT>

Specify the video format (quality) in which to download the video. Note
that not all videos are available in all formats.

=item -b, --best-quality

This option is deprecated, does nothing currently, and is expected to be
removed in a next release, as it is the current behavior of youtube-dl.

=item -m, --mobile-version

Synonymous to the option "-f 17", to download videos playable on some
mobile phones.

=item --all-formats

Downloads all formats for which a video may be available.

=item --max-quality=B<FMT>

Limit the maximum quality of the videos to downloads to B<FMT>.

=item -q, --quiet

Activates quiet mode, avoiding many messages being written to the
terminal.

=item -s, --simulate

Simulate the operation, but do not download the video. Useful for
testing.

=item -g, --get-url

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but show the URL that would be
used to download the video. Can be used with other download tools like
wget or aria2c.

=item -e, --get-title

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but show the title of the video
that would be downloaded.

=item --get-thumbnail

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but print the URL of of the video's
thumbnail.

=item --get-description

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but print the description of the
video.

=item --no-progress

Do not print the progress bar during downloads.

=item -t, --title

Use the title of the video in the file name used to download the video.

=item -l, --literal

Use the literal title of the video in file name used to download the
video. Can contain "weird" characters that are not filtered like with
the -t option.

=item -o B<TPL>, --output=B<TPL>

Specify a template B<TPL> for the names of the files to be created when
they are downloaded. The default filename is video_id.flv. But you can
also use the video title in the filename with the C<-t> or C<--title>
option, or preserve the literal title in the filename with the C<-l> or
C<--literal> option.

=item -a B<F>, --batch-file=B<F>

Specify the name of a file containing URLs of videos to download from
youtube in batch mode. The file must contain one URL per line.

=item -w, --no-overwrites

Do no overwrite already existing files.

=item -c, --continue

Resume partially downloaded files.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT TEMPLATE

The -o option allows users to indicate a template for the output file
names. The basic usage is not to set any template arguments when
downloading a single file, like in youtube-dl -o funny_video.flv
"http://some/video". However, it may contain special sequences that will
be replaced when downloading each video.

The special sequences have the format C<%(NAME)s>. To clarify, that's a
percent symbol followed by a name in parenthesis, followed by a
lowercase S. Allowed names are:

=over

=item id

The sequence will be replaced by the video identifier.

=item url

The sequence will be replaced by the video URL.

=item uploader

The sequence will be replaced by the nickname of the person who uploaded
the video.

=item title

The sequence will be replaced by the literal video title.

=item stitle

The sequence will be replaced by a simplified video title, restricted to
alphanumeric characters and dashes.

=item ext

The sequence will be replaced by the appropriate extension (like C<flv>
or C<mp4>).

=item epoch

The sequence will be replaced by the Unix epoch when creating the file.

=back

As you may have guessed, the default template is C<%(id)s.%(ext)s>. When
some command line options are used, it's replaced by other templates
like C<%(title)s-%(id)s.%(ext)s>. You can specify your own.

=head1 AUTHOR

youtube-dl was written by Ricardo Garcia Gonzalez and many contributors
from all around the internet.  This manpage was written by Rogerio Brito
<rbrito@users.sf.net>.

=cut
